---
title: "Correction After Artemisia Gentileschi \"Lucretia\""
year: 2019
artist: "Robbie Barrat"
#banner: ""
arturl: ""
listed: "short"
---

Since the summer of 2018, I have been in confrontation with a traditional French
painter; Ronan Barrot. We produced many works together as part of a conversation
and argument about artificial intelligence as an artistic medium and tool. While
“Correction after Artemisia Gentileschi, "Lucretia"” is not a part of the work
we produced together, the process it is heavily influenced by the way I observed
Ronan work in his studio. When Ronan was not satisfied with a part of one of his
in progress paintings, he would cover up the offending area with bright orange
paint, and fill it back in to (in his words) “correct” it. Ronan also would
“correct” some of the GAN generations I produced during our confrontation by
painting directly over parts of them.

I was deeply interested by this; and decided to try and teach a neural network
to do something similar. By repeatedly covering up areas of paintings
(specifically nude portraits) and having a neural network reconstruct the
obscured areas; the neural network is doing a very technical and obvious task of
inpainting (a form of reconstruction/repair) - but also adjusting the painting
incrementally to better fit the neural network’s internal representation of what
a nude portrait looks like. This act of correcting the painting to be in line
with the neural network’s internal representation of nude portraiture only
emerges throughout lengthy repetition of inpainting/reconstruction; and
oftentimes the entire process results in a corrected image that hardly resembles
the initial one.
